<title>Notes</title>

# Notes

This page contains expanded versions of some of my thoughts from my notes app.
I have found that this is a quicker way of writing about simple ideas than
writing an entire article about them.

Not all of these are fully developed ideas, and my opinions on things can
change very quickly, so any opinions expressed should be taken with a grain of
salt. I you would like me to further expand or discuss anything mentioned here,
please don't hesitate to contact me through [email](/email).

Inspired by [Nadia Eghbal's](https://nadiaeghbal.com/notes/) and
[Quentin Carbonneaux's](https://c9x.me/notes/) notes pages.

<br>

### 19/01/06

Although it may be controversial to say, but I believe that one of the best
things to ever happen to Bitcoin was Satoshi leaving.

Satoshi was -- and still is -- idolised by many within in the crypto space, so
whatever his opinion on any subject (such as the block-size limit), it would
likely influence many others; without proper debate.

It resulted in Bitcoin development to becoming more decentralised, thus
improving the consensus and security of the network. This is in contrast to
many other blockchains, which typically have a core development team, who hold
a huge amount of influence over their respective network.

I think Satoshi knew that Bitcoin's survival was dependent on his absence.

### 19/01/03

Is it possible to create "bug-free" software? Technically yes, but it is very
unlikely as mistakes are inevitable and there may be bugs further down the
chain (e.g. in the compiler or libraries). It is also impossible to prove that
a piece of software is "bug-free" or 100% secure.

However, there are certain actions a software engineer can take to reduce the
amount of bugs they churn out. [DJB](https://cr.yp.to) had some interesting
thoughts on the subject.

### 18/12/31

A boolean equivalence check (`x ≡ y`) is the same as performing an _XNOR_
operation on the two inputs. Likewise a boolean non-equivalence check (`x ≢ y`)
is the same as an _XOR_ operation.

### 18/12/31

Encourage problem solving; when answering a question, don't give solutions,
give pointers.

### 18/12/31

Will historians of the future ever document the "information age" since we are
already documenting everything?

### 18/12/31

From my observations, it seems that the larger an online community becomes, the
greater the chance of Balkanisation. As evidenced by the _r/Bitcoin_ and
_r/btc_ subreddits. This is why services such as Reddit are so toxic to
communities as they allow the rapid formation of "echo chambers".

### 18/12/30

- A good UX is one which users never notice.
- A good UI is one which users admire every time they use it.
